>> Josh Long: Now I'm going to back
this change out because remember,
this is supposed to be conversational,
so you might do strongly typed
things in a specific case.
But for this case I'm going to
make it conversational again.
By the way, if you do this, remember to
register at GraalVM Native Image hint for
this type, right,
because this needs to be reflected upon.
Okay, content, so
now we've got our system,
we've got the ability to find Prancer,
which is great.
But what's the natural next step here?
The natural next step is gonna
be you want to adopt this dog.
Surely you wanna take this dog
home as quickly as possible.
So we need to give the model the ability
to talk to your tools, to talk to your
local APIs, to ask questions about
scheduling a pickup for this dog.
Okay?
So let's create a patent pending,
super-unique,
industry-unique dog adoption
scheduling thing, okay?
Scheduler.
Okay.
And we're going to have a method here that
given the dog ID and the dog name will
return a time when you can come and pick
up the doggo from a particular location.
Okay.
So plus three days or.
No, not days.
Yeah, days.
Let's do that.
That way it's three days from now,
so we'll know whether this worked.
I'm gonna say scheduling dogId and
dogName, okay?
I'm gonna export this as a tool.
Now, when your mom always told you
to use your words when you're angry,
it's true for everything now, right?
If you want to do,
if you want to be a good programmer,
you also need to use your words, right?
So here's how we do that.
Schedule an appointment
to pickup or adopt a dog at
a Pooch Palace location.
There we go.
And obviously this is one of those
cases where multi line strings in Java,
long overdue.
I'm glad they're here, is really nice.
Okay, so that's my description.
And you know,
I'm going to annotate these tools as well.
I'll say the name of the dog, ToolParam,
(description = "the id of the dog"), okay?
That's terrible formatting.
There you go.
That's a little bit better.
Whatever.
Okay, so that's my tool.
I'm gonna tell my model to invoke
this method to answer the question,
when can I pick up this dog,
whenever it needs it, right?
So I'm going to provide
that as a tool here.
I'll just inject that in the constructor,
Scheduler.
And then down here, when I make this call,
I'll say Tools, Scheduler, okay, restart.
And also, like I said, I'm doing some
things as the default globally for all
uses of this chat client, and some are per
call site, and you can pick and choose.
I could have specified the tools
down here at the call site as well.
Just your preferences of lifetime and
scope and all that.
Okay.
Do you have any neurotic dogs?
Yes, we got Prancer.
Fantastic.
When can I adopt Prancer from
the Minneapolis location?
Am I spelling that correctly, by the way?
Is there two P's or anything like that?
That would have been awkward.
Okay.
Whoops, forgot the quote.
It says I can pick up Prancer on April
26th, which is three days from now,
okay, so scheduling 45 and Prancer.
So the method,
the AI model was smart enough to know.
Okay, I need to call this method.
I need to give it the ID and the dog name,
and then I need to take the response and
incorporate that into my response.
You can also return
strongly typed objects.
I'm just returning a string to make it
easy to kind of grok what's going on
here, okay?
Okay, so this is all well and good.
This is tool calling.
Super powerful.
Hopefully you can see you can let your
model talk to both your business logic
through these tools and through your
data through the vector store and stuff.
That process, by the way, that pattern of
taking data that's in your database and
using it to inform the response,
that's called RAG, R-A-G,
retrieval-augmented generation, okay?
It's a very common pattern, and
90% of the use cases are just that, right?
When you hear about AI engineering,
it's doing stuff like that.
It's doing that and tool calling,
which I just showed you.